[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome back, everyone,
to The Quest for the Cures
Continues.
I'm so glad you
joined us tonight.
Now, if you remember
last night--
I hope you tuned in-- we learn
about how to detoxify your body
and how to get rid of
all the bad guys that
may be compromising your
health and making you sick.
Tonight, I'm really honored to
be able to talk to Dr. Patrick
Quillin again.
If you remember, he led
off last night's episode,
and he's going to lead off
tonight's episode as well.
I was able to sit down with him
at his house out in California.
We talked about what he
calls nature's pharmacy.
As a matter of fact, he
pulled me out to the backyard.
He said, welcome to my pharmacy.
And so I was able
to sit down with him
and learn from one of the
best, if not the best,
expert on nutrition.
As a matter of fact
Dr. Quillin wrote
a book called, "Beating
Cancer with Nutrition."
That's been a bestseller
for the last 20 years.
It shouldn't
surprise us, though,
about nature being a pharmacy.
Look, maybe 150 years
ago, 200 years ago,
was the first
pharmaceutical drugs.
Before that, all
we had was nature.
All we had was
nature's pharmacy.
Now, some of that knowledge
about nature's pharmacy
has been lost over the years.
We're going to empower you
with that knowledge tonight.
You are going to learn a lot.
So please sit down.
Grab a cup of water.
Enjoy the show.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Mother nature has
the answer for cancer.
There's now 300 studies
showing that diet
rich in fruits and vegetables
can lower the risk for cancer.
For instance, this is
a surinam cherry tree.
You can see it's going to
be very prolific, abundant.
Mangoes, apples.
Have a look at this thing.
This is a ripe mulberry.
I find that in dark red and
green fruits and vegetables,
there's a compound
called phytoalexins.
In nature, this thing
is out in nature
and fungus wants to
sit on this sweet fruit
and begin to decompose it.
And so the plant protects itself
by making this phytoalexin.
It's a chemical that
is a pro-drug that's
antifungal in the beginning.
If the fungus eats it, it dies.
If we eat the fruit and
that phytoalexin goes in us,
then the cancer dies.
This has the same
anti-cancer properties
as antifungal in the fruit.
>> Wow.
>> This is the
Black Mission Fig.
>> Black Mission-- that's
the one you usually see
in the stores, at
least in Texas.
They're the Black Missions.
>> That's what you're going
to get in Fig Newtons.
>> OK.
>> So these will
turn dark and soft.
And see some of those that are
in the process of ripening.
And figs have a
compound that they've
identified called
ficin, which has
powerful anti-cancer activity.
>> Right.
>> National Cancer Institute
would love to be able to patent
a drug like ficin, but they
can't figure it out yet.
>> Right.
>> Leafy greens.
>> Yeah, these are great.
>> Spinach, beet greens.
I got beets growing there.
There's beets the size of a
watermelon underneath that,
but I just keep
eating the greens.
>> No kidding?
The size of a watermelon.
>> Huge.
A big beet in there.
And of course, the
greens are rich in--
they figure there's somewhere
around 8,000 bioflavonoids
and 20,000 carotenoids that
are in Mother Nature's fruits
and vegetables.
This bears a fruit about
the size of a golf ball
that looks like chocolate and
tastes like a sweet potato.
>> Really?
>> Black sapote-- it
doesn't get any better.
Basically a sound bite
is, go for the color.
In the color are those
pigments, phytochemicals,
that have powerful
anti-cancer activity.
Welcome to my pharmacy.
The planet Earth is
one of the greatest
pharmacy's ever invented, and
we're ignoring most of it.
And we go down to the drugstore
and spend $280 billion a year
on prescription drugs
in this country.
And according to an article
in the Journal of the American
Medical Association, there's
140,000 Americans each year
who die from the on label
use of prescription drugs.
That means following doctor's
prescriptions, 140,000.
That means it's somewhere
around the third leading cause
of death in America-- using
drugs that may be useful,
oftentimes are toxic.
Try nutrition first.
In many cases it can
solve the problem.
>> Thank you, Dr. Quillin.
And you mentioned clean foods.
I'm going to take a break here--
I'm going to eat a little
bit of a clean food.
This is a mulberry that you
just gave me from your yard.
>> Yes.
Rich in phytoalexins,
anti-cancer to the maximum.
>> That is good.
I've never had a mulberry
that's that shape.
Why is it so long?
>> There are several different
types of mulberry trees.
That is a Pakistan
mulberry that you just had.
And I have an Oscar
mulberry, too.
And when I was trying to select
fruit trees-- first of all,
I live in California.
It's a desert.
We have a water shortage.
We have a particular
water shortage
this year with the drought.
Why would you water something
if you can't eat it?
That doesn't make
any sense to me.
So I'm watering just
the fruit trees.
And among those are fruit trees
that are high in nutrients.
And one of the sound bites I
mentioned is go for the color.
In the color, in those
pigments-- the reds, orange,
yellows, dark colors.
And that mulberry is
a dark purple color.
What you have is
Mother Nature has
sunshine coming down and
hitting the chlorophyll
and the chloroplast.
And it's through
photosynthesis making sugar.
And from that comes all of life.
That's the beginning
of all life on Earth.
How does the plant
protect itself
from the damaging
effects of sun?
Because you've
got both sunlight,
that is mutagenic, carcinogenic.
It's all kinds of--
it's a damaging x-ray.
How does a plant protect itself?
About 20,000 different
bioflavonoids
and about 800
different carotenoids
are in colorful
fruits and vegetables.
And they protect the
plant from the sun,
and from the effects
of photosynthesis.
Given that, what
we're talking about is
I was choosing
fruits and vegetables
that would be not only tasty,
and not readily available
in the stores--
for instance figs.
Figs don't travel well.
That's why most people don't
find them in the stores,
and most people,
including myself,
the only things I had had while
living in the Midwest was Fig
Newton's.
But in fact in figs, is
not just a delicious taste,
but there is a phytochemical--
phyto means plant,
chemical is the substance in it.
In figs, a substance
called ficin--
F-I-C-I-N-- which the National
Cancer Institute has been
researching, hoping to find a
synthetic analog so they can
make a patented drug.
Meanwhile, you have access
to that through figs.
It's a powerful
anti-cancer bioregulators.
This is where it
really hits me, Ty,
as to how powerful nature is.
And I'm hoping that I
can infect the viewers
with a sense of
respect for what God
has given us, and the
good Mother Earth,
and in our food supply.
And here's a simple soundbite--
this human body,
60 trillion cells
orchestrated like no
other organism on Earth.
There's no robot or
any machine that we
will build that will
ever come close to what
the human being does.
Then we have our food supply.
No food ever has just
one nutrient in it.
And they keep doing
mono-nutrient studies--
studying one nutrient.
That's not the way nature works.
We tamper with our food
supply by slice, dice,
chop, and blend.
And add hydrogenated fats
and and color flavorings--
2,800 different
FDA Food additives,
most of which have
not really been tested
for their carcinogenicity.
And so we tamper
with the food supply.
We tamper with our body.
A child, by 30 months, has had
30 vaccinations, some of them
with mercury in them.
This is not a good idea.
So what we do is we're
tampering with the body,
tampering with the food supply.
Then we end up with this
incredible parade of diseases.
Diabetes-- 20 million
diabetics in this country.
And other 20 million
who are pre-diabetic.
80 million Americans have
hypertension, high blood
pressure.
The number is about
70 million Americans
on psychotropic
drugs, and that's
antidepressants, anxiolytics,
sleep problems, et cetera.
So we're tampering
with the food supply.
We're tampering with our body.
We end up with all
of these diseases.
And my simple message is use
this body the way nature, God,
intended it to be.
Eat foods in as close to their
natural state in the diet
that our ancestors consumed.
Which was a little bit
of meat, a whole lot
of fruits and vegetables.
I'm a big fan of whole
grains, and legumes, and nuts,
and seeds.
A semi-vegetarian diet,
meaning a little bit
of fish and chicken and
grass fed beef and lamb
in conjunction with
mostly plant foods.
So you're going to be eating a
lot of relatively unprocessed.
I stay away from gluten as
much as possible, less gluten.
There are many other grains
that you can consume--
rice and corn and
others that are
far preferable to the
gluten intolerance
issue that we're getting to.
The experiences I had with
cancer treatment centers,
10 years working with
thousands of patients,
show that nutrition can have a
huge impact in cancer outcome
while they're being
medically treated.
Again, I'm not saying
nutrition is sole therapy.
>> Wow.
Over 140,000 people die
a year from properly
prescribe prescription drugs?
That's amazing.
Dr. Quillin knows what
he's talking about.
He served his 10 years as
Vice President of Nutrition
for the Cancer Treatment
Centers of America.
He's written 17 books on health,
sold over 2 million copies.
So he definitely knows
what he's talking about.
Another expert on
nutrition is KC Craichy.
Let's listen to what he has to
say about superfood nutrition,
coupled with
calorie restriction.
>> Super food nutrition is a
concept that I started working
on in the '90s.
And I wrote, actually,
my first white paper
on the subject,
which I call the four
corners of optimal
nutrition at that point.
Now I refer to it as the
four corners of super food
nutrition, because the piece
of superfruit nutrition that's
so interesting is that superfood
nutrition, as we have defined
it, is that we know in health
that there are something
on the order of 50 to 53,
depends on how you slice them--
by that I mean, some
people will argue
about how many essential
vitamins there are,
how many essential
minerals there are.
Some people say there's nine
essential amino acids, when
others will say there's 10.
And if you add conditional
essentials, it might be 12.
So depending on
how you slice it,
though, these things called
essential-- or in this case,
dietary essential-- means you
have to get it from your diet
in order to get them.
The body can do anything
and make them nonessentials.
Now technically,
they're all essentials.
But the dietary essentials,
you must consume for the body
to use that as raw material
to make the other things
that your body needs.
And so if you're
not getting those 50
plus essential
nutrients in your diet,
then you're going to have
physiologic consequences
as a result. This
is the four corners
where we start with
calorie restriction
with optimum nutrition.
Now, years ago, you may
remember the biosphere project
with Dr. Roy Wolfe with UCLA.
They were in the biosphere,
and there the whole thing
was about they were going to
grow the food that they use.
And so it was going to be a
self-sustained environment,
and they weren't getting
anything in or out of it.
They'd have to grow
what they needed.
Well, they had
something go wrong
and they couldn't grow
enough food for them.
So they had to ration what
they ate to have less food.
And while they were
hungry and all,
they found remarkable
physiological and psychological
changes that were very positive.
And that really spawned the
whole calorie restriction
movement.
You know, the calorie
restricting, fasting
movement, and so on.
So the calorie restriction
with optimum nutrition--
there's now been more than
2,000 studies in virtually every
organism-- single organism all
the way up to primates and even
in humans, now--
that suggests that this is
positive for physiology.
That it actually is
like if you would
say if there was a
fountain of youth,
it would be extended
life, delayed disease,
enhanced performance,
optimized weight,
increased mental clarity.
And start going down
the list of things
that were beneficial
from doing this approach.
When you now take
calorie restriction
and you add optimal
nutrition, most people
would agree that if
you eat less calories,
but you max out the nutrients
and get all these 51
that we're talking
about at the same time,
that it has got be better
for you than either eating
a lot of calorically dense
food or a little teeny
bit of calorically dense food.
You see what I'm saying?
So that piece is a very
important piece of the puzzle.
There's a really cool study in
Journal of Nutrition in 2001.
It's four groups of mice,
genetically altered mice,
altered to be more
susceptible to disease.
So the first group of
mice was they call it
the all you could eat group.
So they gave it all the food
it could eat all the time,
so it'd graze all the time.
They also added corn
oil to the situation.
So these mice lived an
average of 232 days.
So 232 on the average.
And so the second
group, same kind
of mice, same feeding method.
But all they did was instead of
corn oil, they gave fish oil.
Fish oil, and they live an
average of 100 days longer.
Just adding the fish oil.
It's still garbage
food underneath,
if you think about it.
So the third group was the
calorie restriction group.
They take the same food,
same feeding method,
but they actually cut the
calorie of the food by 40%.
They lived an average
of 200 days longer
than the 232 day
control, just by eating
less of that unhealthy
food they were eating.
The last of the four groups was
the calorie restriction group
combined with fish oil.
And this group lived an
average of 400 days longer
than the 232 day control.
So 600 something days
versus 200 something days.
So that's a fascinating
little study.
And I always say,
if you're a mouse,
you really ought to be thinking
about this kind of nutrition.
But anyway, this does
translate in a lot of ways.
It just shows how high impact
that nutrition could actually
be.
>> So the mice that ate
the buffet of GMO foods,
and they had all that they
wanted, lived 232 days.
But the mice that were
eating healthy foods
with limited quantities,
the calorie restriction,
they lived 632 days.
That's pretty amazing.
Now, in an earlier episode
about the immune system,
we talked about
the way that sugar
affects our body and the way
it affects the immune system
and compromises it.
And the way that it
feeds cancer cells.
But what about fruits
and vegetables?
Don't they contain
natural sugar?
Dr. Tony Jimenez shed some light
on this important question.
>> I want to tell you something
about nutrition that is quite
controversial.
It's a Tony concept.
We are writing a paper.
By we, I mean my chief
science officer, Dr.
Subrata Chakravarty-- those
smart Indians, two PhDs--
and myself.
This is the concept--
cancer cells can only
assimilate R spin molecules,
R spin sugars.
Those are sugars that
rotate to the right.
So Ty, let me ask you.
Have you taken an amino acid?
>> Sure.
>> Like what, Ty?
>> I've taken lysine many times.
>> OK, lysine.
>> Sure.
Anytime I get like a
fever blister on my mouth,
I'll take a few lysines.
>> OK.
The others were R carnitine,
methionine, proline.
So what's the letter in
front of that amino acid?
>> L.
>> L. Let's discuss
what L means.
L stands for levorotatory.
That means left spin.
So the molecules in the
lysine that you have taken
are spinning to the left.
Remember I said
cancer cells can only
assimilate right spin
molecules-- so that's
the opposite.
Human mammalian cells can only
absorb left spin molecules.
That's why you take an L
lysine, not an R lysine.
The difference with cancer
cells is that they could only
absorb right spin molecules--
right spin sugars.
What are the right spin sugars?
The processed sugars.
The white sugars.
That enriched sugars.
The synthetic sugars.
So at Hope4Cancer, we
allow our patients,
in moderation, as
everything should be,
to eat organic, pesticide
free, clean, natural fruits.
Because when God places
fruits in the Garden of Eden,
they are left spin molecules.
Of these, thou shall eat.
So they are helping
our normal cells.
When man fools with all this--
we're in California
in this interview--
in California,
they have something
called the Grapple,
which is a combination
of an apple and a grape, right?
It looks like an apple
and tastes like a grape.
That's not God-made.
So for sure, that has
an R spin, and don't
take that if you have cancer.
But this is my concept.
That cancer patients can take
in moderation healthy sugars.
And we need healthy sugars, ?
Right let's think
about a PET scan.
We know about PET scans.
What molecule are they,
or what contrast medium,
are they injecting?
2-Deoxy-D-Glucose.
D-glucose are right spin sugar.
>> So the cancer cell absorbs--
>> Can absorb it, and
the PET scan lights up.
So any right spin sugar,
it's an unnatural sugar.
OK?
So cancer patients--
in Dr. Tony's opinion,
and I respect what
they have to say.
You could have honey, maple
syrup, molasses, sugar cane
as long as it's natural,
unprocessed, unadulterated.
And of course,
free of pesticides
and all those things.
Because they're not going
to feed cancer cells.
>> Wow.
That's fascinating.
That really answers the
question that I hear a lot,
and sometimes it's kind of
hard to answer these questions.
People say, OK,
cancer feeds on sugar.
We all know that.
So is it OK eat blueberries?
Is it OK to eat grapes?
Is it OK to eat fruit,
because it has natural sugar?
That explains why it would
be OK to eat natural fruits,
whereas the processed
sugars are right spin.
The naturals are left spin.
Cancer absorbs the right
spin, not the left spin.
>> Right.
>> That's fascinating.
>> Let's look at another
viewpoint on this.
Dr. Gerson, Max Gerson--
juicing.
A juice every hour
in his therapy.
Five, six coffee enemas a day.
I know, I worked
with him years ago.
What was his main juice?
One of his main juices?
>> Carrot.
Isn't carrot a high
glycemic index?
>> One of the highest.
But he knew that the carrot
juice and the sugar in that
was not going to
feed cancer cells.
Because why?
It's a left spin molecule.
>> That's fascinating.
>> And let's think of
another concept, Ty.
If sugar feeds cancer, and
it's as simple as that-- wow.
We don't need hyperthermia.
We won't need
photodynamic therapy.
We don't need anything.
We know how to
starve cancer cells.
But isn't that easy.
You think a cancer cell
is going to say, well,
I'm not getting sugar.
I'm going to die.
No.
It's going to get its
nutrients from proteins.
OK.
Don't give it sugar,
don't give it protein.
So what is the cancer
going to do now?
I'm not getting sugar,
I'm not getting protein.
I'm going to die.
No.
It's going to get its
nutrients from fats.
Well, don't give it sugar,
don't give it protein,
don't give it fat.
Well, the patient will starve.
You'll starve, right?
So see, it's about the right--
not right, but the correct
types of sugars to use.
And always in moderation, and
balanced nutritional protocol.
>> And then getting rid of
all of the processed sugars.
>> Exactly.
Yes.
>> Because that would
then feed the cancer.
Make it a lot easier for them to
get the nutrition, if you just
hand it to them on
a silver platter.
>> It's like adding
fuel to a fire, right?
>> Yeah.
Wow.
That's some fascinating
information from Dr. Jimenez--
left spin versus right spin.
Cancer cells feed on
right spin sugars.
Natural sugars are left spin.
I didn't know that information.
I tell you what--
you learn something new
everyday, don't you?
Now, this next interview
Dr. Robert Scott Bell
shares with us
about the importance
of minerals in the diet,
specifically silica, chromium,
and selenium.
>> Well, you think about
the superfoods, right?
Because a lot of
foods may contain
high calories and some
minerals and vitamins.
They might not be as densely,
say proportionately speaking
there, because we've
got to counteract
so much in our environment.
Where it may have been simple
enough to grow your own food
and eat all of the
food as it was grown,
I believe right
now we're dealing
with extraordinary times.
Maybe catastrophic in the
devastation of the environment.
And because of that, just
selecting certain foods
that I think would be good--
like I'm not personally
a big fan of beets.
I had an allergy
to it as a child.
I believe now looking back that
I wasn't allergic to beets,
but because beets have such
a powerful beneficial impact
to the liver, for instance, that
it was helping me to detoxify
and it was misinterpreted
as an allergy, for instance.
So that's a great food.
Super foods and
super greens-- kale
is an excellent,
excellent food that
contains a lot of good things.
Sea vegetation, if you
can find non-irradiated,
non-contaminated forms
of sea vegetation--
and there are many
strains of this--
create the most mineral
rich abundant superfoods
on the planet.
We need to look
also at the mineral
content of-- for the connective
tissue, I talked about silica.
Most of the foods,
unfortunately, that we eat
have been robbed of
these trace elements
because industry has
found it much more
profitable to take
those minerals
and use them for
different reasons.
And they leave us with
the deficient food.
So we talk about
something like silica,
you can go to something like
the horsetail extract, something
that you could grow
and make into a tea
yourself or concentrate in the
whole food form from a tea.
And now you have an
abundance of silica,
which again, is one of those
trace minerals so critical.
And the only time you'll find
it in a health food store
is in the little beauty
section for women
that want to have better
nails, or hair, or skin.
And yet we ignore
the fact that it's
the integrity of the entire
connective tissue of the body.
The vascular system,
as well, is dependent
upon that humble
trace element that's
been removed from most foods.
We talk about foods
like whole grains
that used to contain
abundant amounts of chromium.
And they've been
robbed of the chromium,
because the soils don't contain
it or industry refines it out.
Chromium-- why do we need that?
The form that I talk
about is grown as food,
because it manages what?
Sugar.
Blood sugar.
It helps to deliver it
successfully into the cells,
and mobilize it out
of the cells should
we need it if we don't
have enough coming in
from external sources.
And then we see the--
as Dr. Bittar calls it, the
obligate glucose metabolizer--
cancer--
really taking
advantage of the fact
that we are chromium deficient.
It has access to the
sugar very readily,
because we don't
have the chromium
necessary to bind it and
help deliver it so the cancer
cells can't get it.
So that'd be another aspect.
Other foods, like Brazil
nuts, are rich in selenium.
Although we see as well,
now, lower than it was.
And we need for real metabolic
benefit of selenium higher
quantities than
we're getting just
from Brazil nuts
and other foods.
So concentrating the selenium
in a food grown source or form
is going to be critical.
Utilizing upwards of 200
micrograms a day, bare minimum,
is preventive maintenance.
But upwards of 400, 600,
800, or even 1000 micrograms
of this food grown
form of selenium
to reverse the cancer like no
other trace mineral can do.
And rather than believe the
FDA and their corrupt study
of yesteryear that says
selenium can be toxic to you,
the form that
we're talking about
is not a synthetic isolyte
of food grown form.
We can take large quantities
without concerning yourself
with selenium toxicity,
and it will greatly
benefit the cancer patients
almost more than anything else.
>> And one of the
things that Dr.
Robert Scott Bell just mentioned
was minimally rich vegetation.
So to take a guess--
sea vegetation?
What would you guess what the
minerals that it's rich in?
I know the first thing you're
thinking-- iodine, right?
Kelp has lots of iodine.
So we talked to Dr. David
Brownstein about iodine
and the importance of
iodine in overall health,
specifically with
the thyroid gland.
What is iodine, and do we
need it to prevent cancer?
>> All right.
So I talk about-- let's
do the basics on people--
to help supply their
body with the things
it needs to function
optimally, which is how
we were designed by our maker.
If we supply the body
with the right nutrients,
it should do fine
for a lifetime.
So I consider one of
the basics iodine.
Every cell in the body
needs and requires
iodine to function optimally.
We can't function optimally
in an iodine deficient
environment.
And I've tested, along with my
partners, over 6,000 patients.
Over 96% were low on iodine.
The vast majority,
significantly low on iodine.
And when I talk to
clinicians around
the country who are
looking at this,
they find the same
numbers that I'm finding.
Iodine's main job in the body--
iodine has a lot of
jobs in the body.
The immune system can't
function without it.
You can't fight
infections without it.
But one of its main jobs
is in the endocrine glands.
And the endocrine glands
include the thyroid, the breast,
the ovaries, uterus,
and the prostate.
What are we having
problems with out there?
The thyroid, the ovaries,
uterus, breast, and prostate.
I've mentioned the prostate,
I've mentioned the breast.
The fastest growing cancer
in the United States
is thyroid cancer.
We have uterine ovarian cancer
growing at epidemic rates.
All of these tissues are--
we're having epidemic rates
of problems with them.
Iodine's main job is to
maintain the normal architecture
of those tissues.
And iodine deficiency, the
first thing that happens
is you get cystic formation
in the breast, the ovaries,
uterus, thyroid, prostate.
And let's throw in the pancreas
in here as well, which is also
increasing at epidemic rates--
pancreatic cancer.
And those cysts
start to form when
iodine deficiency is there.
If it goes on longer, they
become nodular and hard.
If it comes on longer,
they become hyperplasia--
hyperplastic tissue-- which
is the precursor to cancer.
And I say that's the iodine
deficiency continuum.
The good thing about
iodine is iodine has
apoptotic properties, meaning it
can stop a cell, a cancer cell,
from just continually
dividing, dividing, dividing
until it kills somebody.
So iodine can stop
this continuum
wherever it catches it,
and hopefully reverse it,
but at least put the
brakes on what's happening.
And know over 80% of women
suffer from fibrocystic breast
disease.
That's a precursor
to breast cancer.
Which as I said,
one in seven women.
I say it's an iodine
deficiency problem period.
That's what it is.
And we either recognize
this and start treating it,
or we're still going to see
one in seven women with breast
cancer.
>> Wow.
I knew that iodine
was important.
I did not know that it creates
apoptosis in the cancer cells.
>> Iodine has been shown to have
apoptotic properties for cancer
cells.
Iodine has been shown to
be effective for treating
a multitude of cancers--
all those tissues
that I mentioned before,
including pancreatic cancer,
including some brain cancers.
It's too bad that the
cancer industrial complex
isn't studying iodine as
a good therapy for cancer,
because they should be.
And I think it
should be studied,
and I think it should
be studied number
one, as a therapy for cancer.
And number two, as a
preventive for cancer.
>> OK.
That makes sense, especially
in light of the fact
that you've shown
the way that iodine
affects the endocrine system.
And the endocrine
glands are the ones
that we're having
the problems with.
>> You know, Ty, I've written
about this extensively
in my book, Iodine--
Why You Need It and Why
You Can't Live Without It.
I did a study where I
looked at 18 women--
nine had breast cancer, nine
did not have breast cancer.
And I measured their
iodine and bromide levels.
And what I did was a test
where we collected the urine.
And what I found was
before any therapy,
the breast cancer women
had half as much iodine
as the non-breast cancer women.
Now, they were
all low in iodine,
but the breast cancer
women were lower
than the non-breast
cancer women.
I gave them 50 milligrams
of iodine for 30 days,
and then I rechecked them.
What I found at the
end of 30 days--
and there was one other
check in the middle there.
But what I found was that
the breast cancer women
had much more bromide,
much less iodine,
than the non-breast
cancer women.
And iodine is part of the
halide family, which includes
iodine, bromide, and fluoride.
Now, out of those three, iodine
is the only essential element
that has therapeutic
value in the body.
Bromide and fluoride,
as far as we know,
has no known therapeutic
value in the body.
And bromide we're
getting in toxic amounts
in our environment.
We're getting toxic
amounts in our food supply
from brominated vegetable oils.
Many medicines contain
bromide as part
of their chemical makeup.
And what I found in testing
every breast cancer--
I haven't tested every
breast cancer patient,
but the ones that
I've tested, 100%
have high bromide levels
and low iodine levels.
I've tested over 1,000
patients in general,
some with cancer, some without.
They all have high
bromide levels.
The cancer patients generally
have higher amounts of bromide.
Animal studies have shown
bromide can push iodine out
of the body.
Bromide can bind where
iodine binds too,
and bromide gums up the cells
and it doesn't work well.
And what we need is more
iodine in our bodies.
And the only way we're
going to get it right now
is supplementation, just
because we're getting too much
in our food and our drink.
And it's in a bunch
of consumer goods,
such as computers and cars.
And you're probably
wearing it in your clothing
right now as a fire retardant.
So iodine needs to be a
continual supplement regimen
for, I think, everybody.
>> Interesting.
>> Well, what I'm
seeing right now,
we're getting too much
bromide, not enough iodine.
And we're getting too much
fluoride from our water supply.
That's another story, too.
But the good thing
about iodine is
iodine can kick
out both of those
if we start ingesting it again.
>> OK.
And so why do you think it
is that so many people are
deficient in iodine?
I know one study that I
read, or one article I read.
I can't remember who it was--
I think it may have
been Dr. Blaylock--
was writing about in the
'70s they took bromine out
of the bread and
started putting in--
or they took iodine
out of the bread
and started putting in bromine.
>> Now that was me
who wrote about that.
>> Was that you?
OK.
>> That's in my iodine book,
and I've written a bunch
of articles on that.
Before the 1970s, iodine
was used in bakery products
as a conditioning agent.
And for some reason
in the early 1970s,
they substituted
bromide for iodine.
And it's not clear why.
But we started to get
all this bromide now
at our bakery products--
every slice of bread, cracker,
cookie, cake now have
bromide instead of iodine.
Well, if you look at the breast
cancer rates and the prostate
cancer rates, when
they really took off
was right about that time frame.
So I say that's when
our iodine levels really
fell off the cliff.
And then what's
also happened lately
is our soil has become
more deficient in iodine.
Now, I live in a nice
area, a suburb of Detroit.
And the Great Lakes
area where I live,
our soil is one of the
most iodine deficient
areas of the world.
Now, it's not just
the Great Lakes area.
If you draw a line
down the center
of the country between
the coasts, most of it
is iodine deficient,
except for the two coasts.
Where you live is a very iodine
deficient area of the world.
So this has been going
on for a long time.
What's been going
on for a long time
is this exposure to bromide and
fluoride, which has exacerbated
this iodine deficiency problem.
And I think exacerbated the
breast, prostate, thyroid,
ovarian, uterine, pancreatic
problems that we're seeing now.
So the US government
recognized iodine deficiency
was a big problem in
the 1920s, as goiter
was in epidemic rates in women,
especially in the Midwest area.
But really I have a
map, around 1915 goiter
was around the whole country--
north, south, east, and west.
So there was a study
done, and the government
recommended they could put a
little bit of iodide in salt
and take care of
this goiter epidemic.
Which they did, and it was
a very effective treatment
to prevent goiter.
And it's still in salt now, it's
in refined salts as we know it.
The problem is only 10%
of the iodine in that salt
is bioavailable for the body.
It's not a great way
to get iodine in.
And then you couple it with
this bromide and fluoride
overexposure that we're getting.
That's a recipe for disaster.
And salt is not the best
way to get iodine in.
At this point in our lives,
I think with our overexposure
to bromide and fluoride, we
have to supplement with iodine.
And I think that the
best way to supplement
with it is either use Lugol's
solution, which has been around
for almost 200 years.
Or tablet of Lugol's solution.
And there's forms of
tablet of Lugol's--
iodoral is one of them.
Iodizyme-HP is another name for
a tablet of Lugol's product.
I've tested all of these
products, they're all fine.
They're all made from
Lugol's solution.
And I think that's
a way to get it in.
I think it's impossible to
get enough in through our diet
right now, in the
world we live in.
And the best sources
of iodine in the diet
are sea vegetables, such
as seaweed or ocean fish.
Now, ocean fish
do contain iodine.
The problem is the
longer that fish
has been out of the
ocean, the less iodine
that fish has as it sublimates
out into a gaseous phase.
And fish have other problems,
such as high mercury levels
to them.
So I still think a
better way is we're
going to need to supplement with
iodine with the cancer epidemic
that we're having right now.
Average doses I find for people,
12 to 25 milligrams for most
people.
If they have breast, lung,
thyroid, prostate, ovarian,
uterine problems
they may need more.
>> Dr. Brownstein is not the
only medical doctor that knows
that iodine deficiency is a big
problem in the United States.
Another medical doctor that
we were able to talk to,
Dr. Murray Buzz Sussar,
shares his insight.
What's a good diet that
you would recommend
to your patients that may be
compromised, because they've
been eating crap
their whole life?
>> No sugar.
And the other thing is no sugar.
>> OK.
>> We said before that the
cancer cells consume sugar
at about 19 times as
fast as healthy cells.
>> Yes.
>> So then the
question is no junk.
Wholesome foods.
You can eat animal foods.
I don't believe in
the vegetarian diet.
Some people do.
I've seen people who
really seem to waste away
on a vegetarian diet.
I think you can do
a low meat diet,
but you've got to have enough
protein to rebuild your cells.
And so you need some
animal food, I believe.
You could probably do what is a
diet for a small planet, where
you could, if you blend--
remember that book, "Diet
For a Small Planet"?
That was one of the
first nutritional books
about cancer and about
nutrition in general.
That if you combine
beans and grains,
you can get a complete protein.
Because vegetarian proteins
never have all the amino acids
that you need.
But if you combine beans and
grains, then you can have both.
So if you're going to try to do
something low in animal food,
read "Diet For a Small Planet."
And be sure that you get
enough of the broad spectrum
of amino acids.
There are 20 or 22,
depending on who
you believe, amino acids that
are essential to our body.
All but about eight of
them we can make ourselves.
So eight, or arguably 10.
>> The jury's out on that still.
>> Yeah.
Which you wouldn't think, in
this day and age, it would be.
>> Right.
>> But let's say you need 10
amino acids that are considered
to be essential, because
we can't make them.
We have to eat them.
And so if we have a complete
diet of amino acids,
all the good fatty acids--
the omega-3, omega-6, omega-9
in the right proportion.
And then of course,
good starches.
And the good starches.
One of the best
foods is watercress.
>> Watercress?
>> Yeah.
It's high in sulforaphanes.
>> OK.
>> Sulforaphanes
are plant enzymes--
plant hormones, actually,
that fight infection,
that fight damage.
So when you crush a plant,
it releases sulforaphanes.
So sulfur is one
of the best ways
to fight invaders, like
cancer or infection.
>> Gotcha.
Watercress.
>> Watercress is like arugula.
Those are the
cruciferous vegetables.
>> Sure.
>> So I like those.
And you can overdo those,
also, because then they
start binding iodine, and
your thyroid gets depleted.
>> OK.
>> Iodine, by the way, is
another important item that
we're very neglectful of.
I treat almost every one
of my patients with iodine.
The recommended daily allowance
of iodine is 160 micrograms.
I have a product that has 20
milligrams per drop, SSKI.
>> OK.
Yeah, that's-- what
Dr. Brownstein said,
was anywhere from 12
to 25 milligrams a day.
Yeah.
>> He's from UCLA?
>> I don't know where
he went to school.
>> Well, he's smarter
than most of us.
>> He's a smart guy.
>> But you are too.
>> I didn't go to UCLA.
>> A lot of smart fellows.
But you went to Pitt.
UCLA versus Pitt-- now that
would be a good football game,
wouldn't it?
But we're not talking
about football here.
We're talking about cancer.
Dr. Sunil Pai is another
conventionally trained
medical doctor that has
stepped outside the box,
and is now using nutrition
to help people get healthy.
Let's listen to
what he has to say.
>> My background, I'm an M.D.
So I'm conventionally trained
in family medicine.
But I did a fellowship
with Andrew Weil
14 years ago in
integrative medicine.
But further than that,
I then went to India
and studied a little bit
more of Ayurvedic medicine.
Ayurvedic medicine is the
traditional medicine of India
that dates back
almost 5,000 years.
And many of the things that I
spoke about in my lecture today
is rooted in that old history
of what we use food as medicine.
So a lot of people think
of Hippocrates saying,
let medicine be thy food,
and food they medicine.
It goes further than that.
>> So he snagged it
from someone else.
>> Everybody thinks that
history started with the Greeks
and Romans.
There's a lot more
history than that, right?
No matter what
school you went to.
So we look at a
variety of things.
And one of the main ingredients,
or natural therapies,
that has been very
effective-- and now
that we have a
preponderance of data
in terms of clinical
efficacy, in terms
of cell culture, animal studies,
now in human clinical trials.
Many of the ingredients I spoke
about today, such as curcumin.
Curcumin is an ingredient
that comes from turmeric.
And turmeric is a root.
We use it in cooking.
So we think of curry.
It's a spice, but
it's not spicy.
So a lot of people
have a misperception
that, oh, it's spicy.
You know, it's a spice,
but it's not spicy.
It doesn't have the heat
component, like a chili,
for example.
But we use it in
yellow curry, if you
went to a Thai restaurant.
Or when people have mustard,
what makes it yellow
is turmeric powder.
So unfortunately
in American cooking
it's used as a colorant, because
it does have that yellow color.
It's a natural color.
But it has a variety
of other benefits.
And one of the
benefits is that it's
a strong anti-inflammatory.
And it now has been
shown to block over
97 different mechanisms
of inflammation.
And so eating it as a food or
even taking it as a supplement
has a variety of benefits.
And we can see a lot of data
showing the support in use
of why we have used this
historically in our past,
and also now what we use
now in clinical trials
as a supplement.
And many companies
now are looking
at how to do it
pharmaceutically as well.
Most of the data
right now-- there's
5,000 published studies on
the benefits of curcuminoids.
But now in the last 10
years, there's a lot of data
now on how that affects
cancer cell growth.
And through these
mechanisms of inflammation,
like NF-kB, which I talked
about today, one of the major
switches of the immune system.
COX enzymes, LOX enzymes.
These are things that
we take certain drugs
like, say, ibuprofen,
Motrin, Advil, Celebrex.
But the nice thing
with the curcumin
is that we have no GI,
kidney, or liver side effects.
So we can take this in
higher doses or lower doses.
And even-- I didn't
mention it today,
but I forgot to mention
that India, for example,
has the lowest dementia
rates in the world.
And one of the issues that
we're looking at, well why?
As a culture, it's not that
they are smarter people,
it's that we're finding
out that they consume
about 25 to 50 milligrams
of tumeric daily
over their lifetime.
And that prevents
inflammation of the brain.
>> Wow.
That's very interesting.
Now, one of the
things that I heard
you say earlier in
your lecture was
that the gold, frankincense and
myrrh in the Bible, the gold
could have been turmeric?
>> From what we're
looking at historically,
the gold maybe
references turmeric.
Turmeric, or you know
curcumin, specifically
the part of the turmeric.
But turmeric was sold and cost
more than gold at the time.
This was during the spice
trade, or the trade route.
And it was always nicknamed
the golden spice, we'd say.
And so there's a
lot of reference
that the myrrh-- you
know, myrrh is guggul.
Which is not the website,
but the G-U-G-G-U-L.
some people here of guggul lipid
as a product or products out
there.
Guggul as an ayurvedic herb
has anti-inflammatory effects
and cardiovascular benefits,
like lowering cholesterol.
And then finally frankincense,
which is boswellia.
So they are the
three main herbs that
were brought-- you know,
the gift of the Magi
came from wise men.
>> Can you go into a few
of the mechanisms of action
for boswellia, the way that
it might reduce inflammation?
>> So boswellias
also block NF-kB.
It's also a 5-LOX
enzyme, so there's
two main pathways in the
arachidonic acid pathway
in terms of when we get
omega-6s from our diet, which
I talked about.
We should be eating a
plant based protein diet,
meaning less animal protein
as possible and less highly
refined oils.
But too much of those
trigger more inflammation,
and then people
end up taking pills
that are blocking inflammation.
Boswellia does that naturally
on one of the main pathways
called 5-LOX.
It also has certain blocking
aspects of what they call VEGF.
These are vascular endothelial
growth factors for cancer cells
to grow.
And also blocks a variety
of transcription factors
and enzyme processes.
And the nice thing
is that's also
been tested in many tissues--
breast, bone.
Brain, for example,
is one of the areas
that we study a lot where brain
tumors, like glioblastoma, have
been shown to actually shrink.
And we have a handful
of patients now
that are the longest surviving
glioblastoma recurrent
patients in one of the big
hospitals in New York state,
for your state history
>> I'm sure I know which one.
>> We all know.
>> And that's with Boswellia?
>> Boswellia.
>> Wow.
So the gold that the magi
gave to the baby Jesus
may have actually
been curcumin--
the golden spice.
I've never heard that
before, but it's definitely
within the realm of possibility.
It makes sense.
Another conventionally
trained medical doctor
who stepped outside the
box is Dr. Roby Mitchell.
Let's listen to
what he has to say
about the importance
of an anti-fungal diet
in treating disease.
>> What would be a
diet, a general diet,
that you could recommend that
would keep the immune system
strong and prevent cancer?
>> So when I started
working with Dr. Wright,
one of the things that I had
been involved with was treating
people for the fungal overgrowth
that happens in our body.
And the thing that I
started to realize--
one of the things that I
realized years before that
was that the common
denominator of any
of these natural herbal
plant exotic fruit
superfood remedies that
work, the common denominator
with them was that they had some
powerful anti-fungal in them.
And that's what garlic,
that's with aspirin,
that's with these
polyphenolic compounds
in the skin of red grapes.
You know, the resveratrol.
So I went into the lab, and I
started investigating, well,
which foods are the
highest in these--
or not necessarily
which was the highest,
but which foods had the most
impact on controlling candida
overgrowth.
And so I set up Petri dishes
right there in the lab,
and we inoculated
them with candida.
And then we just went
about inoculating them then
with extracts from different
fruits and vegetables
and so forth to
see which ones made
the biggest what we call zone
of exclusion in the Petri dish.
And so we had the Petri
control down here,
with a medication
called Diflucan,
that we know kills yeast.
And so we knew that
it was going to leave
a big clear space in there where
it didn't allow yeast to grow.
And then down here,
we had just water.
And so that plate just grew
white with yeast overgrowth
because there was
nothing to inhibit it.
And then all these
other plates I
was able to see which ones
worked better or worse
at keeping yeast under control.
So with that, that was the
springboard for what is now
called the BALI eating plan--
B-A-L-I. And BALI stands for--
it's an acronym for Basic
Antioxidants/Antifungal,
and then Low Insulin.
So we want to--
and regardless of the name
that you can call it--
you know, there's the Gerson
therapy, or the paleo diet,
or Mediterranean
diet or whatever.
What is going to work as
far as keeping cells out
of an environment that incense
them to pleomorph into cancer
cells is one that keeps
the yeast under control.
It keeps you from developing
fungal overgrowth.
Because when that fungus
gets up to a certain level,
then your immune system is going
to respond with the weapons
of mass destruction.
And it's going to create
a toxic environment,
and your cells are
going to cough and choke
and they're going
to start changing
into a cellular form that
will allow them to survive
that toxic environment.
So again, regardless of what you
call it, the food that you eat
has to be food that keeps
fungal growth under control
and doesn't throw
gasoline on the fire.
So when we eat
foods that have what
we call a high glycemic index--
so the grains and the
sugars, corn, wheat,
rice those things--
then we're creating
an environment that
promotes fungal overgrowth.
And that's going to
cause inflammation,
and that's going to,
again, incense cells
to turn into cancer cells.
So we have just seen that more
and more, as our diets have
gotten more and more refined.
That was over here-- started
over here in the Western world.
Now we see it as we have
outsourced all of our computer
jobs and manufacturing jobs
over to these third worlds,
and they get money
in their pocket.
And then we send Coke and
McDonald's over there.
Now we're seeing breast
cancer, for instance, in women
that we didn't see
breast cancer in before.
We're seeing prostate
cancer in men
that we didn't see
prostate cancer
in before in these
third world countries.
And it's, again, because they're
eating the same food that
gave us the problem over here.
>> You have to get food
that's close to nature.
So lots and lots of
vegetables, lots of--
fruits are OK, but you've got
to be careful about fruits.
Because fruits can have
a high sugar index.
But fruits have lots of
wonderful nutrients, also.
I do have people that eat
protein, some protein,
but you should not be eating
more than 60 grams of protein
a day, because it
overwhelms the system
and creates inflammation.
There's lots of sources
for protein now.
There's probably 10
wonderful vegetables
that have protein sources.
Then if people just have to have
meat, it should be grass fed--
a couple of ounces.
If they have chicken,
it's free range.
Unfortunately, all
the fish is tainted
with mercury and
radiation, so it's
hard to recommend that anymore.
It used to be a great protein
source, but it's not now.
We have to eat foods
that help us detoxify.
We have to have foods that
help us provide the energy.
We put all of our
patients on wheatgrass.
Wheatgrass is the most powerful
food that people can eat.
All of our cancer patients,
whether they are at home
or whether they're
in our clinic,
they get wheatgrass
every single day.
>> I love wheatgrass shots.
>> Yes, wheatgrass is wonderful.
Juicing-- a lot of people, if
they've undergone chemotherapy,
the gastrointestinal
system isn't working.
So we have to do
the work for them.
So we give them juicing so they
quickly absorb the nutrients
they need to.
Some people need
to put on weight.
So I have people that
need to put on weight,
I put them on a special program.
So it depends on everything, but
one thing is most of your plate
is going to be vegetables
and a little protein.
Seeds are great--
all different kinds
of seeds from pomegranate
seeds to pumpkin seeds
to sunflower seeds.
It's just we have,
like God it's amazing.
If people like--
it's amazing what's
going on in the food industry.
They're making food
taste so wonderful,
great food taste so wonderful.
So people can't tell
me they can't go--
every year a couple
of times a year
they have the natural
products expo.
Absolutely fabulous, how
we're reinventing food.
>> I agree with Dr. Connealy.
Food that's good for us
doesn't have to taste bad.
It actually should taste good.
And in today's world, we have
a ton of choices of good foods
that are actually healthy for
us, that taste good as well.
And one of the things that Dr.
Connealy mentioned was seeds.
Let's go talk to Dr. Brad Weeks,
and find out the importance
of seeds in our daily diet.
What are the most important
foods, in your opinion,
that have medicinal
value that can help
to prevent disease, cancer?
>> Well, the first thing
there is to be well hydrated.
Good quality water.
I'm against fluoride
in water, I'm
against chlorine if possible.
Unfortunately we have
an artesian well.
I like mineral
water, spring water.
I'm not a big fan of the
alkaline water process,
but certainly the body
has to be well hydrated.
And what's important
about that--
Ty, you may not know this,
but any addictive process,
whether it's cocaine or heroin
or coffee or cigarettes,
is tougher to break if
the person is dehydrated.
So the first thing I
do with someone who's,
for example an
addict, is I rehydrate
and I stabilize blood sugar.
Now, what's interesting
about nicotine, for example,
it clears the system quicker
if you're dehydrated.
So the patient is reaching
for another cigarette.
But if you're well
hydrated, they're
not quite sure when the
nicotine left their system.
So it's the same thing--
cancer, all the illnesses
we pay attention to
are less problematic if the
person is well hydrated.
And water is a tremendous
anti-inflammatory, of course.
So I'm a fan of
anti-inflammatory diets.
I'm a fan of eating real
food, eating living food.
You know, it's astonishing
to me that we even have
this category called junk food.
I like to tell my
patients, you know,
there's no such
thing as junk food.
There's food and there's junk.
And even though the junk can
taste like food, it's not food.
You know, it's really
not going to do what
food should do-- nourish you.
>> It's kind of an oxymoron.
>> It is indeed.
So the thing which I paid a
lot of attention to recently
is eating seeds.
Now, I'm going to use that
term generally-- seeds would
include nuts.
It would include beans.
Anything which you
can put in the ground
and it will grow-- a pea would
be a seed in that regard.
Eggs, something like that.
Caviar in particular-- fabulous.
So seeds are
tremendously valuable,
because the seed is such
a wise little packet.
It concentrates nutrients
about 20-fold and 30-fold more
than the rest of the fruit.
So it's this fabulous packet
of concentrated nutrition.
And what we know
is that it's got
all sorts of genetic
spare parts--
if it's not going to be a
seed that grows into a plant.
That's available for you and I
to repair our DNA and RNA with.
It also has tremendous
stem cell precursors,
especially in the husk of seeds.
>> After that information
from Dr. Weeks,
I think I'm going to start
incorporating more seeds
into my diet.
Now, this is the end of the
episode Nature's Pharmacy,
but I'm going to shift
gears a little bit.
We've all heard the phrase
laughter is the best medicine,
so let's find out some
information about laughter
and about music, and how these
things can impact our health.
We're going to talk to
Dr. Patrick Quillin,
and we're going to
talk to Dr. Francisco
Contreras about this
very important issue.
What kind of a role
does music have
in the overall health
equation treating
cancer, or other diseases?
>> Good question.
I started playing guitar at
age 17, and it was enjoyable.
Fun.
It was a stress reliever.
An emotional life
raft, if you will.
And then I put it away when
my career got busy thinking,
I don't have time
for this nonsense.
There's other things
that I should be doing,
higher priority.
And then I found a
textbook from the New York
Academy of Sciences
called "The Biological
Foundations of Music."
And this is a $100
textbook from all
these academically
affiliated MDs and PhDs.
And what they found is they
show that when you play music--
and actually you can show
things when you sing, too.
Music in general is therapeutic.
Singing and playing is
even more therapeutic.
Just listening to music that
relaxes you is good for you,
and it can have extraordinary
healing capacities.
The studies are
beyond argument now,
that the music that
you're listening to,
making, singing,
or playing actually
changes the way the brain works.
Han Selye, in his
incredible work--
Dr. Selye was the
grandfather of stress.
And there's many others in
the field who have clearly
proven that stress is a
killer, and music is a healer.
>> Fascinating.
In the same line
of thought, here's
a quote by former
President John F Kennedy--
"Humor is the
balancing stick that
allows us to walk the
tightrope of life."
So you've talked about music.
Talk about humor.
>> Absolutely.
We were given this funny
bone for a good reason.
And I realize that there's
many people who say,
you think it's funny?
This isn't funny.
Look at my life.
And I could tell you
things about my life
that you could easily get
very discouraged about.
And yet John Kennedy's
quote is absolutely true,
that we're all walking
this tightrope of life.
And that that humor is
the balancing stick that
allows us to manage it well.
Let me give you a
couple of examples.
What do the following longevity
experts have in common?
Bob Hope lived to be 100.
George Burns lived to be 99.
Art Linkletter lived to be 97.
Jack LaLanne lived
to be 95, I believe.
Phyllis Diller, I believe
is in her early 90s.
Betty White, who's
still alive and doing
great, in her early 90s.
What do they all have in common?
>> A great sense of humor.
>> And what happens is we're
all exposed to a certain amount
of stress.
Some of us-- not
me, but some of us--
God bless you
combat veterans who
are returning with a
lot of stress, mentally
and physically.
More than I could handle.
But somehow we have to be able
to take that stress and use
humor to try and
dissipate the stress.
So what happens is here's
this big ugly balloon
that's blocking our view
of the beauty of life.
And humor says, pop the balloon.
Or at least slowly
let the air out of it.
And a great metaphor
would be it's
the shock absorbers
that allow us
to ride that rocky,
bumpy back road of life.
And it says, I can tolerate
this because of humor.
I can dissipate the
energy, because if you
can get a sense of humor
about things-- and Bob Hope,
of course, had so
many great lines.
He traveled the world many
times with the troops.
And how can you go
into a combat scene
where people are
dying and suffering
and afraid and depressed
and offer humor?
Not only how can
you-- you have to.
>> One of the things,
Dr. Contreras,
that you mentioned was
laughter and music.
>> Yes.
>> And it's so ironic,
the reason that I'm able
to interview you today is
because of Dr. Patrick Quillin.
He spoke to you
earlier today and said,
you should go interview with Ty.
>> Yes.
>> He mentioned two important
facets of any cancer treatment
are music and laughter.
>> They are the most potent
immune stimulating agents
available.
There's no drug,
there's no vaccine
that is more potent to
stimulating the immune system.
There's a study, a
very interesting study,
that shows that for
every minute of anger,
you will depress
significantly, and measurably
of course, the quality and
quantity of your immune system.
One minute of anger--
six hours of depression.
One minute of laughter
will boost significantly
your immune system for 24 hours.
That's why-- children
up to the age of five
laugh around 400 times a day.
Adults only about 40.
And so the reason why children
can eat dirt and be dirty
all the time, it's
because they're laughing.
>> Laughter is
the best medicine.
>> And so they're protected.
So at the Oasis of Hope, we have
laughter sessions every day.
Every time we get
together with them,
no matter how
serious the thing is,
we try to put in
several jokes for them.
They don't have to be good.
We laugh-- sometimes we laugh
at the people telling the jokes.
>> Sometimes you laugh at
how bad the jokes were.
>> Exactly.
It's amazing how powerful
things that cost nothing are.
You know, meditation.
Colors.
There are studies that
show that the most
immune depressing colors
are white and blue.
The typical hospital
colors- imagine that.
So we painted all
our walls mauve,
because there are studies
that show that it's
the most immune lifting color.
So we take into account
all of those things.
Those little things
sometimes count for a lot.
>> Those little things do
sometimes account for a lot.
I totally agree.
Music and laughter are
two things that are free.
They stimulate
the immune system,
and they help us to be healthy.
They are part of nature's
natural pharmacy.
Laughter is the best medicine.
We can access them 24/7.
I recommend that you do.
In this next clip, Mike
Adams the Health Ranger,
really summarizes
this entire episode
as he elaborates on
the amazing pharmacy
that we have right
outside in nature.
>> It reminds me of a question
a traditional Chinese medicine
master once asked me when
we were having discussions
in nature about what's healing?
And he asked me this very
powerful but simple question.
We were in a forest, and
he said, look around.
Find me something around
here in the forest,
find me something
that is not medicine.
And I couldn't.
>> You couldn't do it.
>> I couldn't.
Everything around
us was medicine
in one form or another, even
the soil beneath our feet.
The microbes in the
soil are medicine.
The minerals in the
stones are medicine.
The chemical constituents
in the tree bark
are traditional
Chinese medicine.
A lot of those are tree barks.
The herbs, the
plants, everything
had a medicinal component.
Even the sky, the
sunlight, was medicinal.
The water in the plants--
medicinal.
I couldn't find anything
that wasn't medicine.
And so when people tell
me, when they come up to me
and they say things
like, I don't
know what to do about cancer,
I've tried everything.
Have you tried nature?
Have you?
I bet you on the way
to your cancer clinic,
you walked by nature.
You walked by some
plants that probably have
anti-cancer medicines in them.
>> I guarantee they did.
>> I used to live in
the desert in Arizona.
And there were anti-cancer
treatment centers there
where the very parking lots
had anti-cancer plants.
Very potent.
>> And they probably were better
treatments than were inside.
>> Absolutely.
So people would park their
cars, ignoring the medicine
right there for free.
>> Yeah.
>> And they would walk inside
the cancer treatment center
and get poisoned,
and pay for it.
And wonder why they
were still sick.
That's how messed up the
cancer industry is today.
>> Wow.
That's some amazing information
that we learned tonight
about nature's pharmacy.
You know, food is so important.
A lot of people don't understand
the importance of food,
of nutrition, of your diet
in preventing disease.
Now that's something
that I didn't really
understand as much as I
do now several years ago.
I've learned over the years.
We're all continually learning.
And I hope you learned a
lot from tonight's episode.
Now, one of the
really fond memories
that I'm going to have of this
time of my life, this period,
is I've got four kids
and a beautiful wife,
and we cook together
on a daily basis.
And we cook clean foods.
And when I say clean
foods, I don't mean foods
that you necessarily wash well.
Which you should wash
them, but I mean foods
that are healthy for our
body that give us life.
We do this all the time.
Even my little four-year-old,
Charity, she gets up with me
and she helps me make foods.
Tabitha, my 8-year-old,
she helps me cook.
Of course, Briana and
Bryce, they're older.
They help cook.
I mean, we all do.
It's a family affair in the
kitchen, and we love it.
Now, I can't stop at one episode
with the importance of food.
We talked about some food
and some of nature's pharmacy
tonight, and we're going to talk
about it again tomorrow night.
You're going to really
learn more about nutrition.
It was such an important topic,
we had to do two episodes.
So we're going to
teach you tomorrow
night how to eat foods
that give you life,
and that can give your
body what it needs
so that you can stay healthy.
I'm so glad you
tuned in tonight,
and I hope we'll see
you tomorrow night.
God bless.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I'm here with the Elaine.
And Elaine was diagnosed
with cancer a few years ago.
So I want to get you
tell us about the cancer,
and what did you do to treat it?
And what are you up to today?
>> Sure.
Thanks, Ty.
I was diagnosed in
2008, February 2008,
with a recurrence--
a surprise recurrence-- after
being clean for six years
with stage 4
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Just covered with disease
from here to here.
And my oncologist insisted
that I do a judicial protocol,
and I just knew in my
heart it wasn't for me.
So we parted ways,
and I actually
went down to Mexico to do some
treatments, but then came back.
And I was in big trouble.
I was in really big trouble.
So I found a facility near
me in the Washington DC
area that did some
nontraditional integrative
protocols.
And in about 18 months, I was
told that I was in remission
and I was disease free.
But it had come
back once, and I was
very reticent to be
excited because it probably
would have come back again.
So what I did was I went
on a journey, after I fell
to my knees and I looked
up and I said, God,
I know I'm not going to die.
Just tell me what
you want me to learn.
So I went on a learning journey.
And I put a lot of
the pieces together.
I found there was no one place
that had all the information
or practicals.
So I went on a journey,
and what I learned
was that we have to take
care of the immune system.
We have to get
our pH in balance.
And we have to get into this
alkaline oxygen rich lifestyle.
And once I learned that, my
body just responded incredibly.
I have become a
green juice-aholic.
I'm totally addicted
to green juice--
real green juice,
because I don't
do fruit because of the sugar.
I'm very high alkaline.
So what I do now is I have
totally changed my direction,
and I help people understand.
And in January 2012 I
started what we lovingly
call Renewed Living, Inc. And we
make extraordinary health easy.
And I teach a very
practical way to implement
what real health looks like.
So I encourage
anybody who is looking
at this to get a
good strong basis,
and just ask yourself every
day, how can I stay alkaline
and how can I get
oxygen into my body?
And the answer is
always in the question.
And with that, you will always
look and feel extraordinary.
>> Wow.
Very, very encouraging
story, Elaine.
Thank you so much for
sharing with us today.
>> Thanks for all
the work that you do.
[MUSIC PLAYING]